See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/231582173 An Instrument for Assessing Scientists’ Written Skills in Public Communication of Science Article in Science Communication · January 2012 DOI: 10.1177/1075547012440634 CITATIONS READS 102 1,386 2 authors: Ayelet Baram Tsabari Bruce V Lewenstein Technion - Israel Institute of Technology Cornell University 118 PUBLICATIONS 2,828 CITATIONS 195 PUBLICATIONS 8,238 CITATIONS SEE PROFILESEE PROFILEAll content following this page was uploaded by Ayelet Baram Tsabari on 15 May 2014. The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file. Science Communication http://scx.sagepub.com/ An Instrument for Assessing Scientists' Written Skills in Public Communication of Science Ayelet Baram-Tsabari and Bruce V. Lewenstein Science Communication published online 29 April 2012 DOI: 10.1177/1075547012440634 The online version of this article can be found at: http://scx.sagepub.com/content/early/2012/03/26/1075547012440634 Published by: http://www.sagepublications.com Additional services and information for Science Communication can be found at: Email Alerts: http://scx.sagepub.com/cgi/alerts Subscriptions: http://scx.sagepub.com/subscriptions Reprints: http://www.sagepub.com/journalsReprints.nav Permissions: http://www.sagepub.com/journalsPermissions.nav >> OnlineFirst Version of Record - Apr 29, 2012 What is This? Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) 1–30 An Instrument for © 2012 SAGE Publications Reprints and permission: sagepub.com/journalsPermissions.nav DOI: 10.1177/1075547012440634 http://scx.sagepub.com Assessing Scientists’ Written Skills in Public Communication of Science Ayelet Baram-Tsabari1 and Bruce V. Lewenstein2 Abstract This article describes the development of the first tool for measuring scientists’ written skills in public communication of science. It includes the rationale for establishing learning goals in seven areas: clarity and language, content, knowledge organization, style, analogy, narrative, and dialogue, as well as the questions designed to assess these goals. The skills testing is primarily designed for assessing written communication skills and can be used in many science communication training contexts. It can serve as a baseline survey, as a formative assessment, or in summative pretest/posttest evaluations. The article provides detailed criteria for analyzing the results of the instrument as well as findings from baseline data collected from science graduate and undergraduate students. Keywords media training, science in the media, communication skills, standardized evaluation 1Technion–Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel 2Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA Corresponding Author: Ayelet Baram-Tsabari, Department of Education in Technology and Science, Technion–Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 32000, Israel Email: ayelet@technion.ac.il Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) Introduction Many studies have described motivations and challenges for scientists who wish to speak with the media (e.g., Dunwoody & Ryan, 1985; Martin-Sempere, Garzon-Garcia, & Rey-Rocha, 2008; Sturzenegger-Varvayanis et al., 2008; Treise & Weigold, 2002), as well as the abundance of such interactions (e.g., Jensen, 2010; Peters et al., 2008; The Royal Society, 2006). However, few studies have systematically examined scientists’ ability to communicate with the media and the public. Nonetheless, many organizations and institutions have created training opportunities to help scientists become better at public communication. Moreover, science communication scholars are largely in agreement that bench scientists and engineers as well as science and health regulators would benefit from both media training and training in communicating with the public (Besley & Tanner, 2011). Before one asks “What do scientists need to learn in order to communicate better?” one needs to attend to scientists’ knowledge and, more important, current expectations and norms related to communicating with the public (either directly or through the media). From a sociocultural perspective, which sees knowing and understanding as anchored in cultural practices within communities (Wenger, 1998), it helps to consider what scientists learned while becoming scientists. From this perspective, learning science means learning to talk science, with its own semantic patterns and specific ways of making meaning. “It means learning to communicate in the language of science and act as a member of the community of people who do so” (Lemke, 1990, p. 1). This view of learning science aligns with the theory of situated learning, which views learning as a process of enculturation into a community of experts, with its own belief system, jargon, and norms (Brown, Collins, & Duguid, 1989). This view is also in line with ideas from the social studies of science, which highlight the degree to which knowledge exists only in the form in which it is expressed (Latour & Woolgar, 1979; Myers, 1990; Shinn & Whitley, 1985; Ziman, 1968, 1978). In this sense, the process of becoming a scientist inevitably involves learning to talk and write science according to the norms of the scientific community. These would include generalizing and abstracting rather than building on examples, stories, and anecdotes, and using accurate descriptions rather than analogical approaches. Although many specific counterexamples can be identified—see example, analyses of Stephen Jay Gould’s article “Spandrels of San Marco” in Selzer (1993)—we are here describing the bulk of writing in the sciences, including the advice given in various handbooks (Day & Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein Gastel, 2011; Wilkinson, 1991). In scientific writing, there is much use of the passive voice, of abstract nouns in place of verbs, and of verbs of abstract relation in place of verbs of material action (Lemke, 1990). According to a statistical formula for the measurement of readability, scientific magazines achieved the lowest score on the “reading ease” and “human interest” score, ranking them as “very difficult” and “dull,” respectively (Flesch, 1948). Furthermore, using jargon has the effect of making people from other communities feel excluded and alienated (Halliday, 1993). Communicating science to the lay public demands yet more learning—in this case, the ability to use nontechnical language and norms when discussing science beyond the scientific community. Furthermore, recent exhortations of scientists not only call for them to be clearer speakers but also call for engaging in a respectful dialogue with the public, as public values make important contributions to science-related policy issues (Leshner, 2009). Instead of “training” in science communication (which usually refers to acquiring specific practical skills), the terms teaching and learning better fit the complex process in which scientists develop new knowledge, behaviors, skills, and attitudes. We set out to develop an instrument for measurement of scientists’ skills in science communication using this framework of sociocultural learning theory. We sent e-mails in June 2010 to 134 leaders of science communication programs in Europe, Australia, and North America listed in various directories (Directorate General Research, 2010; PCST Academy, n.d.), asking if they had formal evaluations of their programs. Based on 36 responses, no systemic evaluation of the courses’ learning outcomes is being performed. Less than half conduct any assessment, and when conducted, most use generic student evaluation questionnaires that look at issues of instructor skill and organization. Although evaluating programmatic efforts to promote communication skills is essential, program directors and evaluators have no standard tools for defining, let alone promoting and analyzing, science communication skills (Fennewald, 2011). Our task, therefore, is twofold: first, to compile a list of outcome measures conceptually linked to common science communication learning goals and, second, to develop a conceptually based scheme for evaluating whether they have been achieved. This approach draws on traditions borrowed from the field of science education. We were particularly inspired by the conceptualization and measurement of students’ and teachers’ views of the “Nature of Science” (Aikenhead & Ryan, 1992; Lederman, Abd-El-Khalick, Bell, & Schwartz, 2002), a line of research now more than 40 years old. We were also inspired by Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) the quantitative and qualitative work invested in conceptualizing and measuring public knowledge of and attitudes toward science (Allum, Sturgis, Tabourazi, & Brunton-Smith, 2008). This study is part of a bigger project to develop a measure for scientists’ views about, knowledge of, and skills in public communication of science, especially in the context of science communication education programs. This article focuses on the development, piloting, and analyzing of a measurement tool for scientists’ science communication written skills. We chose to analyze written skills (instead of other options, such as oral presentations to policy makers or televised interviews) to allow analysis of larger samples without the need to record and transcribe the responses, as well as to ease comparison across samples. Furthermore, analyzing oral communication would add another level of complexity, relating to tone, body language, charisma, and so on. That said, we believe the questions described below can be used as a basis for evaluation of oral communication as well (e.g., by replacing the number of words asked for with a request for specific timing). We argue that the instrument can be used with a wide range of science communication education programs as a baseline survey, as a preevaluation/ postevaluation of the learning outcomes for particular programs, or as a form of formative assessment that promotes teaching and learning alike. Principally, we ask, “What should scientists learn in order to write better for the public? And once these learning outcomes are identified, how can we assess them?” Learning Goals Reviewing the literature, we developed a framework of learning goals for public communication of science (Table 1), with particular attention to goals for written communication (which we believed would be most amenable to systematic assessment). This framework builds on work that looks at different contexts and types of public communication (Miller, Fahy, & The ESConet Team, 2009), on theoretically informed analyses of pedagogical presentations by scientists and science students (Kapon, Ganiel, & Eylon, 2009, 2010; Sevian & Gonsalves, 2008), and on our own reading from a wide range of practical advice books for scientists (e.g., Baron, 2010; Christensen, 2007; Cribb & Hartomo, 2002; Dean, 2009; Hayes & Grossman, 2006; Meredith, 2010). Learning goals must be tied to the specific context for which the learning is intended. The most explicit set of categories we found came from the European Union–funded ESConet training program, which divides its study Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein Sevian and Practical Kapon, Ganiel, Gonsalves Advice Level Learning Goals Clusters and Eylon (2010) (2008) Books Table 1. A Framework for Learning Goals in Written Science Communication Basic Use appropriate Clarity Includes clarity Pedagogical Content, language, address within content language readability, use basic “knowledge knowledge explanations as organization,” appropriate, avoid includes jargon, acknowledge language within prior knowledge “story” (or lack of specific necessary knowledge) Select appropriate Content Content Content Preparation, content: engaging, knowledge content interesting, relevant to particular audience. Include scientific information, as well as nature of science, scientific method, implications Organize presentation Knowledge Knowledge Pedagogical Content well, using good organization organization knowledge pedagogical and communication techniques: main theme, framing, scaffolding, repetition Intermediate Use aspects of style Style Includes aspects Pedagogical Style creatively: humor, of style within knowledge emotions, anecdotes, “story” local references Develop analogic Analogy Analogical — Style strategies for thinking explaining complex topics Use complex narrative Narrative Story — Style tools as appropriate, such as character development, conflict, and resolution Advanced Acknowledge and show Dialogue — — — respect to multiple worldviews modules into “basic” and “advanced” (Miller et al., 2009). The advanced modules, in particular, deal extensively with “dialogue-based” science communication in which scientists and publics interact with regard to issues that have high policy relevance or social controversy associated with them. Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) Although full dialogue settings are beyond the scope of this project, we included the advanced category as certain written materials may use such an approach. However, we divided the ESConet “basic” category into “basic” and “intermediate” categories to better align with the material we drew from the pedagogical literature. The pedagogical literature looks at issues such as the presentation techniques of leading physicists who are also highly successful popular physics public lecturers (Kapon et al., 2009, 2010) and the practices used by science graduate students to explain their research to nonscientists (Sevian & Gonsalves, 2008). We found the following clusters of goals identified by Kapon et al. (2009, 2010) to be especially useful: • Content features: This cluster includes elements that reflect a judicious choice of content: what to include, what to omit, and the means to achieve this goal (e.g., selection of topic or level). • Knowledge organization features: This cluster includes elements that manage knowledge (e.g., structure, repetition). • Analogical approaches: This cluster includes elements that explain the novel in terms of the known (e.g., analogy, metaphor). • Stories: This cluster includes elements that construct scientific ideas through means that are common in fiction (e.g., narrative). To these clusters, we added “dialogic” to provide space for goals associated with the dialogue model of science communication. We made adjustments based on our reading of other materials. Following Kinneavy (as cited in Rowan, 2003), we conceptualize analogy, narrative, and dialogue as forms of organization rather than as a desired outcome, such as persuasion or curiosity. Finally, we considered the many detailed suggestions provided by practical science communication advice books. This advice, we found, fell into four clusters: preparation, content, language, and style (Table 2). We found that these categories could easily be aligned with the clusters derived from the other works (Table 1). In the process of identifying potential resources, we examined a wide range of other sources, such as the guidelines provided by the British Council (2011) for participants and judges of the international science communication competition “Famelab” and the judging criteria provided by the “Intel International Science and Engineering Fair” (Society for Science and the Public, 2011). These guidelines can easily be incorporated within the clusters, suggesting that the clusters listed in Table 1 are both sufficiently broad and sufficiently differentiated to capture the range of possible learning goals. Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein Table 2. Summary of Advice for Scientists Interacting With the Media Preparation Know the basics of journalism Get media training Know your interviewer Build relationship with the journalist Know your audience and shape your message accordingly Practice The message: Content Focus on a few main points Repeat your main points (in different ways) Create clear and concise messages Include methodology/processes Avoid too much information Qualify when necessary Put message into perspective (the “so what?” question) The message: Style Use examples, analogies, metaphors, give meaning to numbers Use/avoid clichés Visualize: Use pictures, graphics, tables, animations, and movies Talk from the heart. Show passion and enthusiasm Use humor The message: Language Use simple and short words and sentences Avoid jargon, acronyms, and abbreviations Use sound bites Sources: Hayes and Grossman (2006), Dean (2009), Cribb and Hartomo (2002), Christensen (2007), Meredith (2010), Baron (2010), Kapon, Ganiel, and Eylon (2009, 2010). Because of the “basic, intermediate, advanced” structure, the learning goals appear to be hierarchical, with each additional goal building on the previous one. While we do not wish to be dogmatic regarding the ordering of the goals, we do call attention to the inherent dependency of higher learning goals on earlier ones. Clearly, the potential learning outcomes of an intervention depend on the conceptualization of science communication, the agenda of the organizers, and the learning goals of the specific workshop/course (different trainings by the same trainer can have different learning goals). A recent web survey involving 255 science communication experts indicated that the training focus differs greatly. For example, 30% of the responders indicate that public speaking is not at all a focus of the training, while 27% designate it as a primary focus. Trainings focused on public engagement and news values were Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) relatively common for bench scientists, engineers, and science and health regulators (Besley & Tanner, 2011). The question of what learning outcomes to measure is therefore tied to the question of what the learning goals were to begin with. In this work, we suggest ways to assess a wide range of learning goals in written science communication skills. Teachers and researchers can choose those assessments that are associated with their goals. Instrument Development and Testing Questions were developed to address each of the goals listed above (Table 3). In a close-ended question, responders were presented with a list of science concepts and were asked to mark those that should be defined when writing to a nontechnical audience. Then they were presented with three open-ended practical tasks: describing one’s research, responding to a question about science in everyday life, and responding to a question about science’s role in society. The three questions ask scientists to describe science at the fundamental level (explaining research), at the contextual level (relevancy to everyday phenomena), and finally as a social institution (science’s role in society). The third level will often depend on national context; therefore, some of the possible issues might be more relevant in some countries than in others. A list of issues is provided to cater to concerns of citizens from different developed societies. However, further adaptation to local concerns might be needed (Table 3). The decision to include several options within the ‘science in everyday life’ and ‘science in society’ questions were motivated by the varied scientific and cultural background of the potential participants. Some users may wish to use only one question in order to enhance standardization. There are (at least) two options for using the questions in a postcourse questionnaire: (a) ask participants to answer the same questions again or (b) provide responders with their own original answers and ask them to edit their essays to make them more clear and useful to readers. The second option is the one used here with a control group. The analysis of the answers will be described in detail in the section “Written Skills Analysis.” Face Validity. To establish face validity for the questionnaire, 15 interviews were conducted with people from relevant groups in the research population— active faculty and graduate students in the life and natural sciences. Interviewees were recruited using snowball sampling procedure and were heterogeneous with regard to their experience with and attitudes toward science in the media. The interviews established cognitive validity of self-report items Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein Table 3. Items for Assessing Written Communication Skills Purpose Levels Item Identifying jargon, recognizing the level of public prior knowledge Describing one’s research Responding to a question about science in everyday life Responding to a question about science’s role in society Basic Basic and intermediate Basic and intermediate Basic, intermediate, and advanced In your opinion, which of the following science concepts should be defined when writing to a nontechnical audience? Mitochondria, angle, pulsar, quantum, meiosis, dark matter, polymer, epigenetic, isotope, kinetic energy, density, DNA, cell, the standard model Please describe your research, its context, and its implications for a general audience in 150-200 words (you can pick a specific project in progress or research that has already been completed) Imagine you are talking to members of your family who do not have a science background. Knowing that you have general science knowledge, they ask you one of the following questions about science in their lives. Choose one question and answer in 75-150 words. (a) “Why doesn’t the doctor prescribe antibiotics for flu?” (b) “If there is no oxygen in space, how does the sun burn?” (c) “Why can’t I use metal in a microwave?” (d) “What is the Internet and how does it work?” (e) “Why does a white shirt becomes transparent when it’s wet?” (f) “How do the police identify people based on their DNA?” (g) “How come grandfather, who smoked a pack a day for 72 years, is alive and well at the age of 91, while his vegetarian nonsmoking doctor died of cancer?”a Happy with your answer, they now ask one of the following questions, about science’s interaction with society. Choose one question and answer in 100-200 words. (a) “How can you believe that humans developed from monkeys, when the Bible says God made us?” (b) “How can you believe that the universe is 13 billion years old, when the Bible says God created it less than 6,000 years ago?” (c) “Are humans responsible for the Earth getting warmer or not? Why can’t scientists agree on that?” (d) “Is genetically modified food safe? How come the Europeans don’t use it but people in America do?” (e) “Why do we spend all this money on giant particle accelerators and journeys to Mars, when there are hungry people in the world?” a. Not all questions were equally popular. The most popular questions chosen to be answered by participants were Questions a, b, f, and g. Questions c and d were less popular, and no one in our sample answered Question e. Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) (Karabenick et al., 2007) and were also used as preclinical interviews. These interviews informed and enriched the questionnaire and provided samples for the development of the coding scheme. Instrument Testing. Sample and Procedure. An electronic version of the instrument was tested as a baseline survey in fall 2010 and spring 2011 with 51 science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) graduate students and 35 undergraduate students (15 in STEM majors) from a northeastern United States research university. The undergraduates were all enrolled in the elective course “Science Writing for Media.” Graduate students were solicited via departmental lists (approximately 10% opened the survey link, with about 6% completing the instrument). An additional 23 graduate students completed the survey before participating in science communication workshops. The low response rate and the choice to take part in the workshops and course imply that our sample is more interested in the topic of science communication than the general science student cohort, which is probably representative of the general audience for science communication courses. Test/Retest Reliability. In order to establish test/retest reliability, 19 STEM graduate students completed the survey twice (the second time was simply a request to revise answers if desired), with an interval of approximately 2 weeks. These participants were compensated with $20. This procedure tested if the opportunity to revise ones’ answers results in better performance without any other intervention, allowing us to check if changed responses were due to the training or to the measurement tool itself. No systematic changes were seen in the test/retest data. Only one person significantly improved the essay’s readability. Intercoder Reliability. To establish intercoder reliability, over 10% of the data were coded independently by two researchers. Disagreements were discussed and resolved by refining the coding scheme. The average free marginal Cohen’s kappa was .83 for the two coders. Written Skills Analysis Our responders were presented with four practical tasks: identifying jargon, describing one’s own research, responding to a question about science in everyday life, and responding to a question about science’s role in society (Table 3). In this section, we will describe various ways in which their answers can be meaningfully analyzed. As described above, the analytical scheme addresses seven clusters of learning goals, divided into basic, intermediate, and advanced levels (Table 1). Each cluster can be assessed using Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein multiple criteria; below, we present examples of how we approached the analysis. These data are based on a small group of participants; therefore, the analyses should be viewed solely as demonstrations of the instruments’ use in practice. Basic Level This level includes assessment of skills related to clarity, content, and knowledge organization. Clarity Language. To assess the appropriateness of language used, we developed a “Science concept familiarity index” and a “Jargon index.” First, science concepts were classified using the Benchmarks for Science Literacy (American Association for the Advancement of Science, 1993); we identified concepts as mapping to the K- to 8th- or 9th- to 12th-grade curriculum or as being more advanced (over K-12). The main weaknesses of this method are the limited numbers of science concepts included in the publication, including the lack of new concepts since 1993. The second classification was based on Google News (news.google.com), an automated news aggregator. The exact news sources are not known outside of the Google corporation, but as of 2010 the company reports that it indexes over 4,500 English language news sites, including blogs. It aggregates several million articles a day and sends about 1 billion clicks each month to news publishers worldwide, which makes it a reasonable proxy for broader media coverage of news (Segev & Baram-Tsabari, 2010). Science concepts were classified as follows according to the number of hits on Google News in the past 3 years: • Not jargon, if the word/phrase received over 80,000 hits (e.g., virus, galaxy, atom) • Familiar science concept, if the word/phrase received between 8,000 and 79,999 hits (e.g., gravity, nitrogen) • Recognizable science concept, if the word/phrase received between 800 and 7,999 hits (e.g., phosphorous, magnetic field) • Unfamiliar science concept, if the word/phrase received between 80 and 799 hits (e.g., bioremediation, uric acid) • Strictly professional concept, if the word/phrase received fewer than 80 hits (e.g., meiosis, baryonic) Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) The main weaknesses of this method are its lack of transparency and its instability. Google News does not report the actual number of hits but reports only an estimate. The exact way in which this estimate is calculated is not published. Furthermore, Google News occasionally changes its algorithms and data sources without notifying its users, which may result in changes in concepts’ scoring and impair reliability. In other work, we have explored these issues at greater length and have found that they do not affect our overall use of the metric (Segev & Baram-Tsabari, 2010; see also Janetzko, 2008). Asked to identify science concepts that should be defined when writing to a nontechnical audience (Table 3), many participants in our sample distinguished between K-8/not jargon terms and less familiar terms (Table 4). The biggest difference between undergraduates and graduate students was with regard to the term DNA, which half of the graduate students felt should be explained, compared with 23% of the undergraduates. It is interesting to note, however, that for each of the terms, no matter how unfamiliar (e.g., epigenetics), there were some participants who did not view it as jargon that should be defined. Jargon was also assessed in participants’ answers to the open questions. Thirty-nine concepts extracted from participants’ answers were coded according to both the Benchmarks and Google News metrics. The coding showed a significant correlation (p < .01). Therefore, we developed a “Science concept familiarity index” based on Google News, as it provides for greater comprehensiveness, it is continuously updated, and it has greater ecological validity since we are interested in what scientists write for the media (rather than the formal educational context that the Benchmarks address). After coding each of the concepts, we combined the scores to create a single “jargon index.” This index combines the level of unfamiliarity of the words with the number of unfamiliar concepts. We used the following formula, where “n(familiar,nd)” is the number of jargon words at the level of “Familiar science concept” not defined (nd) in the text, “n(recognizable,d)” is the number of jargon words at the level of “Recognizable science concept” defined (d) in the text, and so on: Jargon index = n(familiar,nd) + 2n(recognizable,nd) + n(recognizable,d) + 4n(unfamiliar,nd) + n(unfamiliar,d) + 8n(professional,nd) + n(professional,d) Let us demonstrate with the following jargon-heavy answer: Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein Table 4. Percentages of Graduate and Undergraduate Students Who Marked Concepts in Response to the Question: “In your opinion, which of the following science concepts should be defined when writing to a nontechnical audience?” Grade Level Classification According Based on STEM Graduates Undergraduates to the Google News Science Concept (n = 48) (n = 35) Benchmarksa Hitsb Angle 12 11 K-8 Not jargon Density 27 23 K-8 Familiar Cell 29 17 K-8 Not jargon DNA 53 23 K-8 Not jargon Kinetic energy 75 63 9-12 Recognizable Polymer 72 77 9-12 Recognizable The standard 88 97 Over K-12 Recognizable model Quantum 92 89 Over K-12 Familiar Isotope 84 80 9-12 Recognizable Epigenetic 92 97 Over K-12 Unfamiliar Pulsar 94 91 Over K-12 Recognizable Meiosis 94 89 9-12 Professional Dark matter 92 89 Over K-12 Recognizable Mitochondria 96 86 9-12 Unfamiliar Note: STEM = science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. a. Based on the online version of Project 2061 Benchmarks for Science Literacy (American Association for the Advancement of Science, 1993). b. Based on the number of hits on Google News (http://news.google.com) during the past 3 years. I study how tissue damage by an intestinal parasite promotes an immune response. Our body is programmed to recognize toxins, cancerous cells, and infections (such as viruses and bacteria) by detecting “danger signals.” These signals consist of molecules that are not found in the human body under normal conditions, such as the endotoxin secreted by bacteria. When an intestinal parasite, such as Trichinella, infects the intestine, it destroys some of the intestinal epithelial cells, and these cells release their own danger signals, called “alarmins.” We are interested in a novel alarmin, called IL-33, which is required for the body to develop a potent immune response to the parasite. The same type of immune response, induced by IL-33, is involved in allergic asthma and autoimmune diseases such as ulcerative colitis. Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) This answer contains 16 jargon terms: 6 familiar science concepts (molecule, tissue, allergic, secrete, bacteria, parasite), 4 recognizable science concepts (toxin, epithelial, autoimmune, cancerous cells), 4 unfamiliar science concepts (intestinal parasite, endotoxin, Trichinella, ulcerative colitis), and 2 professional terms (alarmin, IL-33). Two of the unfamiliar concepts and both professional terms were explained. Therefore, the passage’s jargon index is 6 × (familiar,nd) + 2 × 4(recognizable,nd) + 4 × 2(unfamiliar,nd) + 2(unfamiliar,d) + 2(professional,d) = 6 + 8 + 8 + 2 + 2 = 26 The responses to the three open questions yielded distinctively different jargon indexes, with descriptions of research being more “jargon” than explanations about science in everyday life (Table 5). Generally speaking, graduate students used more jargon than undergraduates, but the groups themselves were highly heterogeneous. The range of the jargon index among graduate students describing their research spanned from 1 to 34. This finding also highlights the distance between what people say should be done and what they actually do—between verbal knowledge and the application of that knowledge. While 75% to 96% of the graduate students noted that recognizable and unfamiliar science concepts should be defined (Table 4), many of them actually used similar terms without defining them a few minutes later when describing their own work. Similar disconnection between declared and actual practice has been described in the science education literature (e.g., Henderson, Yerushalmi, Kuo, Heller, & Heller, 2004). This finding also highlights the importance of evaluating scientists’ skills based on actual performance of the relevant skill. Readability. Readability was assessed using the Flesch Reading Ease Score (Flesch, 1948). It is calculated based on the average sentence length and the average number of syllables per word. On a scale of 0 (very complex) to 100 (extremely simple), between 60 and 70 is considered acceptable and is understood by eighth and ninth graders. Standard Microsoft Word software calculates the score. In our sample, readability varied greatly between individual participants and questions. Generally speaking, readability was lower when people described their own research than when answering the other two questions. However, even within the same group answering the same question, the range was very wide—spanning, for example, from 0 to 67 among STEM graduates’ descriptions of their own work, with an average of 35.3 (Table 5). Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein Table 5. Descriptive Statistics of the Analysis of Graduate and Undergraduate Students’ Answers to the Questions: “Please describe your research, its context, and its implications for a general audience in 150-200 words” [My research] and “Imagine you are talking to members of your family . . . they ask you one of the following questions about science in their lives” (75-150 words) [Science in everyday life]. My Research Science in Everyday Life Cluster Category Measure STEM Graduates (n = 46)a,b STEM Graduates (n = 51) Undergraduates (n = 35) Clarity Language: Science concept familiarity index Readability Type of explanation Content Presenting correct information Science content Nature of science Connection to everyday life Knowledge Scaffolding organization explanation Style Humor Analogy Analogy Metaphor Narrative Narrative No. of words, average ± SD Average jargon index ± SD Flesch readability ease average ± SD % Absent % Definition % Elucidating explanation % Quasiscientific % Transformative explanation % Correct Average no. of units ± SD Average no. of units ± SD % Present % Present % Present % Present % Present % Present 8.8 ± 7.7 2.5 ± 2.9 35.3 ± 15.2 51.3 ± 14.4 39 22.2 22.8 13.3 2.3 100 10.9 ± 6.6 0.68 ± 0.8 53.3 65.3 2.3 11.3 15.3 6.5 6.3 17.8 40.2 31.6 3.8 100 9 ± 4.9 0.02 ± 0.14 39 88.3 7.9 15.5 13.6 15.6 141.7 ± 77.3 94.1 ± 54.7 0.8 ± 1.2 50.3 ± 15.7 11.4 40 37.1 11.4 0 86.6 6.5 ± 4.2 0.23 ± 0.6 20 80 2.9 14.3 5.7 11.4 79 ± 38.1 a. Not all graduate students responded to this question. b. Undergraduate students were not asked to describe their research, since many of them were not involved in a research project. Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) Type of explanation. The type of explanation was classified based on Rowan (1992), with some adaptations that are described below. Explanations were categorized as the following: • Absent • Definition: Example: “The internet is a virtual network.” (A new category added by us.) • Elucidating explanation: This is a definition with an example/ nonexample. Example: “Antibiotics only work on bacteria, which means that they can only be used for diseases caused by microbes belonging to the bacteria family. Flu, on the other hand, is caused by viruses.” • Quasiscientific: This is an explanation that creates an image in the mind, often by using an analogy. Example: “Consider each computer as a node and the Internet as a web.” • Transformative explanation: This requires addressing alternative frameworks that already exist in the learner’s mind and aiming for a conceptual change in which one central concept comes to be replaced by another. This type of explanation is based on extensive work within the field of science education (e.g., Posner, Strike, Hewson, & Gertzog, 1982). We coded as transformative any explanation whose starting point was what the audience might think, that pointed to problems with the existing conceptions, or that explained why the scientifically accepted theory is more plausible or fruitful. The following is an example: I believe that the Bible must be interpreted in the context in which it was written. When the original text was written, people did not have our understanding of the natural world. They needed an explanation for their existence in terms that they could understand. That took the form of God creating them. Today we have proof that species evolve from one another and there is no reason to think that we are so special that we should not follow the same rules as the rest of nature. The score for each answer reflected the highest level of explanation. Among our sample definitions, elucidating explanations and quasiscientific explanations were more frequent than transformative ones (Table 5). Those were used mainly by graduate students who answered a question about science in society (Table 6). However, when describing their own research, almost 40% did not offer any explanation at all (Table 5). Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein Content Presenting correct information. Responses were categorized as either correct or incorrect (e.g. “Antibiotics are remnants of dead flu cells” [false]). In our sample, almost all participants presented correct information (Tables 5 and 6). Science content. The number of “content units” was defined as any standalone fact stated about scientific research or its results. For example, the sentence “Two facts motivate my research—first, diverse systems are healthier systems, and second, humans are rapidly altering diversity around the globe” would be coded as having two content units. In our sample, the number of content units varied widely. Generally, participants used more science content while describing their own research than when answering a question about science in everyday life and used the least science when answering the question about science in society (Tables 5 and 6). Graduate students used more science in their answers than did undergraduates. However, even within the same group answering the same question, the range was very wide—spanning, for example, from 0 to 29 among STEM graduate descriptions of their own work. Nature of science. When scientists write science they also write about science—its dynamics, affordances, limitations, and human aspects. We identified these based on a list of 18 ideas compiled by Lederman et al. (2002). A few examples are the following: • Principle: Observations are used to make scientific knowledge. Example: “When we count all the material that we observe, we only account for a half of what we know existed after the big bang.” • Principle: Empirical evidence supports rather than proves scientific claims. Example: “So far, no evidence that contradicts this theory [has been] found.” • Principle: Society has an influence on science. Example: “Americans have taken the stance that unless we can prove they [genetically modified organisms or GMOs] are unsafe, we will use them. Europeans believe that unless there is solid proof that they are safe, they will not use them.” Many answers in our sample did not make even one reference to principles of the nature of science. The highest number of content units about the nature of science was found, unsurprisingly, in answers to the science in society question (Table 6). Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) Table 6. Descriptive Statistics of the Analysis of Graduate and Undergraduate Students’ Answers to the Question: “Happy with your answer, they now ask one of the following questions, about science’s interaction with society. Choose one question and answer in 100-200 words.” STEM Cluster Category Measure Graduates (n = 50) Undergraduates (n = 35) Clarity Language: Science Average jargon index ± SD 2.2 ± 2.5 0.7 ± 1.2 concept familiarity index Readability Flesch readability 49.7 ± 10.9 49.9 ± 12.3 ease average ± SD Type of explanation % Absent % Definition % Elucidating explanation % Quasiscientific 18.6 17.6 26.6 22.4 0 42.8 28.6 28.6 % Transformative 14.1 0 explanation Content Presenting % Correct 93.3 100 correct information Science content Average no. of units average ± SD 6.8 ± 5.9 3.8 ± 3 Nature of science Average no. of units average ± SD 2 ± 2.2 1.3 ± 1.2 Connection to % Present 32 14.3 Knowledge organization everyday life Framing % Social progress % Economic competitiveness % Morality and ethics 19.3 7.8 0 5.9 5.9 2.9 % Science and 3.8 20.59 technology uncertainty % Pandora’s box 2.2 5.9 % Public 4.2 8.8 accountability % Middle way % Conflict and 9.6 2 20.59 0 strategy Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 (continued) Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein Table 6. (continued) STEM Graduates Undergraduates Cluster Category Measure (n = 50) (n = 35) % Science vs. 17.8 32.3 nonscience Scaffolding % Present 50 62.9 explanation Style Humor % Present 2.2 0 Analogy Analogy % Present 12.2 5.7 Metaphor % Present 6.2 2.9 Narrative Narrative % Present 9.9 2.9 Dialogic approach References % Absent 17.9 14.7 to multiple % Acknowledging 39.8 32.3 worldviews more than one worldview % Explaining 41.8 53 more than one worldview Respect % Denying others’ 28.8 25.8 for other basis for beliefs worldviews % Accepting 15.6 12.9 other’s right to believe differently % Accepting the 55.8 61.3 possibility that others might be right Argumentation % Only assertion 7.9 2.9 % A one-sided 40 45.7 argument % A two-sided 6.2 11.4 argument % A compound 43.9 40 argument No. of words, average ± SD 133.1 ± 75.6 97 ± 34.7 Connection to everyday life. Connection to everyday life was defined as an explicit connection made to common knowledge, a previous event, or a news story that was not already embedded in the question. Connection was categorized as either absent or present (an example of “present”: “There has been a lot of talk lately in the news about the H1N1 virus. Like they’ve said, it’s a virus and other flus are too”). Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) Most participants did not add connections to everyday life not suggested in the original question. However, when describing their own research, a little more than half of the graduate students used this strategy to explain what they were doing (Table 5). This is interesting since study of scientists’ discourse about science communication found that establishing relevance was almost universally suggested by scientists (Davies, 2008). This finding points again to the importance of evaluating scientists’ skills according to their actual performance. Knowledge Organization Framing. The framing of the answer was classified based on Nisbet and Scheufele’s (2009) typology of eight frames applicable to science-related policy debates: social progress, economic competitiveness, morality and ethics, science and technology uncertainty, Pandora’s box, public accountability, middle way, and conflict and strategy. Based on a qualitative review of the essay responses, we added an additional frame—science versus nonscience (demarcation, posing science as being at odds with another worldview and indicating one is correct and the other nonsensical). Analysis according to framing was only used in the “science in society” question (Table 3). The topic of the question biases the types of frames scientists choose. In our sample, for example, most participants framed their answers as either “middle way” or “science versus nonscience” when answering questions about science and religion. More participants chose the demarcation frame rather than the one trying to find a middle way (Table 6). When answering the question about climate change, many chose to frame the discussion as “scientific and technological uncertainty.” Explaining why funding should be invested in science research when there are hungry people in the world was mainly done using a frame of “social progress.” Scaffolding explanation. Scaffolding is present when a paragraph successfully builds understanding incrementally, the size of each step is appropriate, and the audience is able to follow logical development of successively more complicated ideas (Sevian & Gonsalves, 2008). It was categorized as either absent or present. For example, scaffolding is present in the following description: Two facts motivate my research—first, diverse systems are healthier systems and second, humans are rapidly altering diversity around the globe . . . My research asks if it matters that species are being gained and lost rapidly from these communities . . . By manipulating plant number and type (i.e., native plants versus exotic plants) in each community, I can begin to uncover the mechanisms underlying the superior performance of diverse systems. Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein In our sample, over half of the responders gradually build understanding in their answers. Intermediate Level This level includes assessment of skills related to style and analogical and narrative approaches. Style Humor. Humor included both explicit jokes and ironic language. We categorized humor as either absent or present (e.g., “Hence, there is no biotic [living form] for the antibiotic to target, other than killing our own cells, which wouldn’t be very wise”). In our sample very few participants took advantage of this efficient strategy to enhance their message. Analogical Approach Analogy. Analogies are defined as a systematic mapping between two situations: the source (familiar situation) and the target (novel situation; Kapon et al., 2010). We categorized analogies as either absent or present (e.g., “Viruses and bacteria are different organisms, like a cat and dog are different organisms”). In our sample, over 10% of the answers used analogies to explain the unknown in terms of the already known. Metaphor. Metaphors structure one concept in terms of another. Unlike analogies, metaphors do not necessarily map directly between source and target; similarities can be associative (Kapon et al., 2010). We categorized metaphors as absent or present (e.g., “Fusion in their cores releases energy and heat, which bubbles up to the surface”). In our sample, graduates were more likely to use metaphors, especially in talking about their own work. Narrative Approach Narrative. Narrative was defined and identified based on Norris, Guilbert, Smith, Hakimelahi, and Phillips (2005). It was categorized as either absent or present. For example, narrative is present in the following story: Grandpa was born with a certain chance of getting cancer and so was Doctor Goody Two-Shoes. There are certain factors like conscious decisions that Grandpa made (e.g., smoking and drinking like a fish) and other factors that are out of one’s control (e.g., the fact that Doctor Goody Two-Shoes lived next to that jerk who made his yard into a toxic dump site tainting his veggies) that increase one’s chances. Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) In our sample, over 10% of those explaining science in everyday life used some kind of narrative approach in their answer but less so in the other questions. Advanced Level This level includes assessment of skills related to applying a dialogic approach in science communication. Dialogic Approach References to multiple worldviews. Answers to the science in society question were classified with regard to references they made to multiple worldviews. These could be the following: • Absent • Acknowledging more than one worldview: Example: “There are a few scientists that do not believe that humans are at least partially responsible for the Earth getting warmer, but the overwhelming general consensus is . . .” • Explaining more than one worldview: The following is an example: The best way of testing this is to make the modified plant and monitor it for an extended period of time . . . Europe and the U.S. have differing ideas about what is an extended period of time and how much testing is sufficient. Although laboratory tests have shown GM foods are safe for human consumption, there is much more testing that could be done, including the effects of GMO fields on nearby crops. Because the EU has stricter regulations, they are waiting for more tests, while the U.S. considers the testing that has already been done is sufficient. In our sample, over 15% of responders did not make any reference to an additional view, and about a third acknowledged such a view. More responders chose to explain more than one worldview than the two other options (Table 6). Respect for other worldviews. Answers to the science in society question were also coded with regard to the respect they showed to multiple worldviews, except for answers that made no reference to other worldviews. Possibilities included the following: Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein • Denying others’ basis for beliefs, in either sarcastic or straightforward ways. Example: “The only reason people don’t eat genetically modified foods in other countries is because people are scared of them.” • Accepting others’ right to believe differently. Example: “Some people are willing to be convinced. Some are not. And that’s OK.” • Accepting the possibility that others might be right. Example: “All of these things are debates and it’s really crucial for science to not squelch debates. It is important to hear out skeptics, think through, address them.” In our sample, over one quarter of the responders chose to deny others’ basis of belief, about 15% accepted others’ right to believe differently, while the majority of responders accepted the possibility that those others might be right (Table 6). Argumentation. Argumentation plays a central role in contemporary science education as a means for learning about the social practice of science and developing knowledge and understanding of the evaluative criteria used to establish scientific theories (Duschl & Osborne, 2002). We placed argumentation in the advanced level of the scale both because of its dialogic nature and because of the level of skill needed to do it well. Answers to the science in society question were also classified with regard to the level of the argument, using a structural scheme based on Schwarz, Neuman, Gil, and Ilya (2003): • An argument may include an assertion but no reasons to back up the assertion. Example: “The center of the Earth is hot.” • A one-sided argument includes an assertion and at least one reason to back up the assertion. The following is an example: Genetically modified food is safe. All that is occurring when food is genetically modified is that we change the DNA of food very slightly. Because everything we eat has DNA in it, this is not going to hurt us at all. • A two-sided argument presents two different assertions and at least one reason for each. The following is an example: Like many other technologies, genetic modification is very complicated. On the one hand it does not seem harmful because there are no foreign chemicals being introduced to the crop—we only change Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) the order of building blocks in the DNA. However, because of our lack of understanding of how the DNA sequence controls all of a plant’s characteristics, changing the sequence can have unintended and unexpected consequences. • A compound argument presents two assertions with reasons for each connected together by a qualifier (“even if,” “even though,” “it depends”). A compound argument undertakes the analyses of the pros and cons necessary to solve the issue. In our sample, most answers gave either a one-sided argument or a sophisticated compound argument, potentially enabling their audience to understand both sides of the argument (Table 6). The data presented in this section suggest that although our sample was representative of people who are already interested in science communication, great heterogeneity still exists between the outcomes they produced. Many were unable to apply their declarative knowledge regarding the use of jargon and the importance of relevance in practice, and only a few used humor, analogies, and narratives in their communication. Science content was emphasized, while discussion of the nature of science was infrequent. Participants were more likely to respectfully accept others’ worldviews when answering them, rather than denying their basis for belief, and 40% were able to offer a complete and two-sided argument. The data also suggest that each of the questions does explore a different aspect of science communication written skills. Conclusion This article describes the development of the first tool for assessing scientists’ written skills in public communication of science. We based the tool on a list of learning goals for science communication education programs and derived a conceptually based scheme for evaluating them. The outcome is the assessment tool and the analytic framework for understanding the results it produces. The development of the goals and instrument was guided by existing literature, interviews with active scientists, and establishment of test/retest reliability. It may be used as a baseline survey, as formative assessment during communication training, or as a pretest/posttest summative evaluation of the learning outcomes of a wide range of science communication education programs and courses. For the purpose of this study, 16 different characteristics Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein of the text were examined (summarized in Table 6). However, in practice, only those that evaluate the learning goals of the specific intervention ought to be used. The main contribution of this article is the detailed description of the written skills analysis, drawn from a variety of content worlds and assessment traditions that include also novel measurements, such as the jargon index. The analysis points to the importance of assessing actual performance rather than declared knowledge. In particular, we are intrigued by the idea that scientists may need to “unlearn” the communication skills they have acquired as scientists. If learning the discourse of science is essential to becoming a scientist, learning the discourse of public communication of science is essential for scientists engaging with the public. This process can only take place in sociocultural environments that value such practices. Unfortunately, the two discourses are sometimes in tension: One rewards jargon, the other penalizes it; one rewards precision, the other accepts approximation; one rewards quantification, the other rewards storytelling and anecdotes. Using some of the criteria described here, it may be possible to document changes in scientists’ ability to develop their messages in ways that will reward them in the public arena. The small sample sizes reported here prevent us from making strong claims about the science communication skills of science students. However, the results do suggest potential areas for further investigation, such as the frequent mismatch between what scientists say they know about science communication and what they actually do; the limited use of narrative, analogy, and metaphor despite their frequent presence in advice books; and the very high presence of content while simultaneously failing to present the nature of science or the connections to everyday life. Future research in the evaluation of science communication skills could develop in many directions. One may be a theoretical exploration of the possibilities of standardized and quantitative assessment of science communication education initiatives. Another might be an attempt to compare the findings of this type of assessment with a different form of assessment (e.g., evaluations by lay readers). A third direction might quantitatively describe the interactions between different measures, such as content units and jargon, while taking into account also the number of words in each answer. This type of study might consider the “density of content” alongside readability and jargon. Similarly, demographic characteristics of the participants (e.g., seniority and gender) may interact with certain measures. Further research might also adapt this type of analysis to analyzing real media messages of scientists on unedited broadcast formats (e.g., talk show interviews). All of Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) these may help practitioners and scholars alike identify best practices in science communication education. Acknowledgments The authors would like to thank the scientists who helped us develop this measurement and Karina Knoll, Claire Peters, and Michal Nitzany for their skilled and thoughtful assistance with the study. Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article. Funding The authors disclosed receipt of the following financial support for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: ABT received funding from the European Research Council under the European Community’s Seventh Framework Programme (FP7/2007-2013)/Marie Curie International Outgoing Fellowships Grant Agreement No. PIOF-GA-2009-236283. BVL received funding from the US Fulbright Commission and corresponding support from the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology. References Aikenhead, G. S., & Ryan, A. G. (1992). The development of a new instrument: Views on Science-Technology-Society (VOSTS). Science Education, 76, 477-491. Allum, N., Sturgis, P., Tabourazi, D., & Brunton-Smith, I. (2008). Science knowledge and attitudes across cultures: A meta-analysis. Public Understanding of Science, 17, 35-54. American Association for the Advancement of Science. (1993). Benchmarks for science literacy. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. Baron, N. (2010). Escape from the ivory tower: A guide to making your science matter. Washington, DC: Island Press. Besley, J. C., & Tanner, A. H. (2011). What science communication scholars think about training scientists to communicate. Science Communication, 33, 239-263. doi:10.1177/1075547010386972 British Council. (2011). The Times Cheltenham Science Festival hosts the International Final of the world’s greatest science communication competition. Retrieved from http://www.britishcouncil.org/new/press-office/press-releases/ Famelab-proves-science-has-got-talent/ Brown, J. S., Collins, A., & Duguid, P. (1989). Situated cognition and the culture of learning. Educational Researcher, 18, 32-42. Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein Christensen, L. L. (2007). The hands-on guide for science communicators: A step-bystep approach to public outreach. New York, NY: Springer Science + Business Media. Cribb, J., & Hartomo, T. S. (2002). Sharing knowledge: A guide to effective science communication. Collingwood, Victoria, Australia: Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Davies, S. R. (2008). Constructing communication: Talking to scientists about talking to the public. Science Communication, 29, 413-434. doi:10.1177/1075547008316222 Day, R., & Gastel, B. (2011). How to write and publish a scientific paper (7th ed.). Westport, CT: Greenwood Press. Dean, C. (2009). Am I making myself clear? A scientist’s guide to talking with the media. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. Directorate General Research. (2010). European guide to science journalism training (3rd ed.). Brussels, Belgium: European Commission. Dunwoody, S., & Ryan, M. (1985). Scientific barriers to the popularization of science in the mass media. Journal of communication, 35, 26-42. Duschl, R. A., & Osborne, J. (2002). Supporting and promoting argumentation discourse in science education. Studies in Science Education, 38, 39-72. Fennewald, T. J. (2011, November). NSF fellows in classrooms: A way to communicate science? Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the Society for Social Studies of Science (4S), Cleveland, OH. Flesch, R. (1948). A new readability yardstick. Journal of Applied Psychology, 32, 221-233. Halliday, M. A. K. (1993). Some grammatical problems in scientific English. In M. A. K. Halliday & J. R. Martin (Eds.), Writing science: Literacy and discursive power (pp. 69-85). London, England: Falmer. Hayes, R., & Grossman, D. (2006). A scientist’s guide to talking with the media: Practical advice from the union of concerned scientists. New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press. Henderson, C., Yerushalmi, E., Kuo, V. H., Heller, P., & Heller, K. (2004). Grading student problem solutions: The challenge of sending a consistent message. American Journal of Physics, 72, 164-169. Janetzko, D. (2008). Objectivity, reliability, and validity of search engine count estimates. International Journal of Internet Science, 3, 7-33. Jensen, P. (2010). A statistical picture of popularization activities and their evolutions in France. Public Understanding of Science, 20, 26-36. doi:10.1177/ 0963662510383632 Kapon, S., Ganiel, U., & Eylon, B. S. (2009). Goals and design of public physics lectures: Perspectives of high-school students, physics teachers and lecturers. Physics Education, 44, 528-535. Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) Kapon, S., Ganiel, U., & Eylon, B. S. (2010). Explaining the unexplainable: Translated scientific explanations (TSE) in public physics lectures. International Journal of Science Education, 32, 245-264. Karabenick, S. A., Woolley, M. E., Friedel, J. M., Ammon, B. V., Blazevski, J., Bonney, C. R., . . . Kelly, K. L. (2007). Cognitive processing of self-report items in educational research: Do they think what we mean? Educational Psychologist, 42, 139-151. Latour, B., & Woolgar, S. (1979). Laboratory life. Beverly Hills, CA: SAGE. Lederman, N. G., Abd-El-Khalick, F., Bell, R. L., & Schwartz, R. S. (2002). Views of nature of science questionnaire: Toward valid and meaningful assessment of learners’ conceptions of nature of science. Journal of Research in Science Teaching, 39, 497-521. Lemke, J. L. (1990). Talking science: Language, learning, and values. Norwood, NJ: Ablex. Leshner, A. I. (2009). Alan I. Leshner: Commentary on the Pew/AAAS survey of public attitudes toward U.S. scientific achievements. Retrieved from http://www .aaas.org/news/releases/2009/0709pew_leshner_response.shtml Martin-Sempere, M. J., Garzon-Garcia, B., & Rey-Rocha, J. (2008). Scientists’ motivation to communicate science and technology to the public: Surveying participants at the Madrid Science Fair. Public Understanding of Science, 17, 349-367. Meredith, D. (2010). Explaining research: How to reach key audiences to advance your work. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. Miller, S., Fahy, D., & The ESConet Team. (2009). Can science communication workshops train scientists for reflexive public engagement? The ESConet experience. Science Communication, 31, 116-126. Myers, G. (1990). Writing biology: Texts in the social construction of scientific knowledge. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press. Nisbet, M. C., & Scheufele, D. A. (2009). What’s next for science communication? Promising directions and lingering distractions. American Journal of Botany, 96, 1767-1778. doi:10.3732/ajb.0900041 Norris, S. P., Guilbert, S. M., Smith, M. L., Hakimelahi, S., & Phillips, L. M. (2005). A theoretical framework for narrative explanation in science. Science Education, 89, 535-563. PCST Academy. (n.d.). Courses. Retrieved from www.upf.edu/pcstacademy/Courses Peters, H. P., Brossard, D., de Cheveigne, S., Dunwoody, S., Kallfass, M., Miller, S., & Tsuchida, S. (2008). Science-media interface: It’s time to reconsider. Science Communication, 30, 266-276. Posner, G. J., Strike, K. A., Hewson, P. W., & Gertzog, W. A. (1982). Accommodation of a scientific conception: Toward a theory of conceptual change. Science Education, 66, 211-227. Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Baram-Tsabari and Lewenstein Rowan, K. E. (1992). Strategies for enhancing comprehension of science. In B. V. Lewenstein (Ed.), When science meets the public (pp. 131-143). Washington, DC: American Association for the Advancement of Science. Rowan, K. E. (2003). Informing and explaining skills: Theory and research on informative communication. In J. O. Greene & B. R. Burleson (Eds.), Handbook of communication and social interaction skills (pp. 403-438). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum. Schwarz, B. B., Neuman, Y., Gil, J., & Ilya, M. (2003). Construction of collective and individual knowledge in argumentative activity. Journal of the Learning Sciences, 12, 219-256. Segev, E., & Baram-Tsabari, A. (2010). Seeking science information online: Data mining Google to better understand the roles of the media and the education system. Public Understanding of Science, 20, 130-143. Selzer, J. (Ed.). (1993). Understanding scientific prose. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press. Sevian, H., & Gonsalves, L. (2008). Analysing how scientists explain their research: A rubric for measuring the effectiveness of scientific explanations. International Journal of Science Education, 30, 1441-1467. Shinn, T., & Whitley, R. (Eds.). (1985). Expository science: Forms and functions of popularisation. Dordrecht, Netherlands: D. Reidel. Society for Science and the Public. (2011). Judging at your fair. Retrieved from http://www.societyforscience.org/page.aspx?pid=284 Sturzenegger-Varvayanis, S., Eosco, G., Ball, S., Lee, K., Halpern, M., & Lewenstein, B. (2008, June). How university scientists view science communication to the public. Paper presented at the 10th International Conference on Public Communication of Science and Technology, Malmo, Sweden. The Royal Society. (2006). Factors affecting science communication: A survey of scientists and engineers. London, England: The Royal Society. Treise, D., & Weigold, M. F. (2002). Advancing science communication: A survey of science communicators. Science Communication, 23, 310-322. Wenger, E. (1998). Communities of practice: Learning, meaning, and identity. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press. Wilkinson, A. M. (1991). The scientist’s handbook for writing papers and dissertations. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall. Ziman, J. M. (1968). Public knowledge: An essay concerning the social dimension of science. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press. Ziman, J. M. (1978). Reliable knowledge: An exploration of the grounds for belief in science. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press. Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 Science Communication XX(X) Bios Ayelet Baram-Tsabari is a senior lecturer of biology education and science communication at the Technion–Israel Institute of Technology. Her professional background is a combination of academic research in the fields of science education and communication and the active communication of science in the mass media. She serves as the head of the academic committee of the annual Israeli Science Communication Conferences. She is a Landau Fellow for Leaders in Science and Technology Program (supported by the Taub family) and an Allon Fellow for Outstanding Young Researchers. Bruce V. Lewenstein is a professor of science communication at Cornell University. His research is primarily on the history of public communication of science, with excursions into more contemporary areas of science communication, such as informal science education. He has taught science communication on every continent except Antarctica. Downloaded from scx.sagepub.com at CORNELL UNIV on May 2, 2012 View publication stats 